Hey, everybody.
Welcome back to Boost Your Income with
Bootstrap to WordPress.
This lecture is called How To Achieve
the Parallax Scrolling Effect
in Five Minutes or Less.
Let's go.
[MUSIC]
I wanna show you that it's actually
possible to achieve the parallax scrolling
effect in five minutes or less.
To demonstrate,
I have our static site here.
This is the one that we've been building.
And currently we can't actually scroll
because there is not enough content
on the page.
So let's just go back
to our code editor and
I'm just going to paste inside our
section, it doesn't really matter where,
just a div with the class of container
with a wild amount of lorem ipsum.
I'm only putting this in temporarily just
so we can actually cross the page so
we can see the effect.
So this is just there, for example,
so we can actually scroll.
So I'm gonna scroll, and
there is no parallax effect currently.
The reason why the background is staying
still there is because we set the CSS for
the hero to have a background position of
fixed, so it stays still as we scroll.
That's one step of the parallax effect but
it's not the true parallax effect,
because in the true effect
the background scrolls up.
But at a different speed
than the foreground.
So I'm using this simple parallax
scrolling technique on tutsplus.com.
I will share that as a link in the extras
section or in the description.
And then you can follow along in there
afterwards just if you
missed any little details.
It's the tutorial I used
to learn how to do it.
It's very simple and
straightforward and I wanted to show
you how easy it is to implement it.
Okay, so let's go ahead and
start the timer.
I have egg timer here set for
five minutes.
And I'm going to hit go.
And then when we go I'll prove to you that
we can do this in five minutes or less.
All right.
Here we go, five minutes.
Open up your code editor.
First thing you wanna do is go to your
hero section and give the custom HTML5
data Attribute of data-type,
background, these are required.
And data-speed.
And the speed we're gonna set to five.
It could be set to any integer, but
we're gonna set it to five, and
you can play around with it
later just to see how it works.
Save that.
And go ahead and open up your main.js and
let's start up jQuery.
So jQuery should already
be initiated in your index.
You have jQuery being pulled in.
First thing you're gonna wanna
do is cache the window object.
I like doing this cuz it just makes
the load time a little bit faster.
A little bit of an advanced technique but
not so much.
We're gonna be using this window object
a little bit later in our script.
So here is where we're gonna start
the parallax background effect.
So let's select all sections with the data
attribute, the data type
attribute of background.
And then each.
We're going to roll through each of those,
function.
All right.
Here we go.
Then we're gonna cache the variable
bgobj for background object.
That's custom variable.
And select this.
There we go.
This is assigning the object.
All right,
now we're gonna go through the window,
Scroll function here.
And in here,
we're gonna to scroll the background at
var speed, so
the background object's speed.
And the yPos is a negative
value because we're scrolling
it u Okay, so var yPos =
-($window.scrollTop() /
$bgobj.data('speed').
All right.
And then, put together our
final background position.
So variable, call that coords for
coordinates.
And then 50% will be the position.
A little space there, gonna concatenate
the y position,
plus we're gonna concatenate pixels, so
we can actually use this in CSS,
and then let's move the background.
So let's take that
background object CSS and
in there,
let's take the background Position.
And then that will be coordinates.
That variable that we just stored there.
And then end, window, scroll.
There is CSS that we have to do, but we've
already done it in the previous lecture.
In our hero, we've made the background
50% 0, repeat, and fixed.
Fixed is important to have there.
Because now if you go to the site and
refresh.
Try scrolling now.
See how that background
scrolls at a different speed.
Then the foreground,
that is the parallax effect.
And now the beauty of this is all
you need to do for future Sections.
Let's just give it the data type,
background, and
data speed whatever number on any section.
So if you want it on this section,
if you want it on the section below,
you just need to make sure that
the ID has a background image.
And make sure it's a tall
background image, very tall one.
And it's repeat and fixed.
And that's it, and you can see
here I have 15 seconds to spare.
So there's the simple parallax scrolling
effect in five minutes or less.
I hope that rocked your world.
See you in the next lecture, where we will
create the modal window using Bootstrap.
[MUSIC]